So, this one is,
sort of a album layout examples,
pretty standard thing to have
where you chop these cards on the screen
and you have an image to the left,
and you have some text to the right.
However, there is like a lot of little delicate stuff
that you need to keep in mind here.
So, this one is going to teach us both
about how to nest grid inside of another grid,
as well as give us some practice
with using auto-fit and minmax.
So, kinda the cool thing about this is that
there are no media queries in this entire thing,
yet, it is completely responsive, meaning that,
as big as it goes you have four and as it gets smaller
it snaps down to three, down to two, and then eventually,
once it's too small, it'll snap down to a column of one,
without having to write any sort of media queries,
which I think it's pretty neat.
So, let's go ahead and get started on that.
I'm gonna open this one up,
on another tab so we can reference it,
open up the starter file, and what I've done,
looks like some HTML that we've got here,
so, we have div of the class albums,
that's gonna be our grid,
and then each album is going to have some artwork,
just some random image coming off of unsplash,
and then inside of that we will have our album details,
which go to the right of it, so,
initially when I try to do this one I actually thought
I could get away with not having the sort of
album details wrapper div and just have,
like the h2 as a sibling to the image.
And while I do find with CSS script you do,
you have a lot less wrapper components,
you still have to have, I mean,
this case was a really good use case of,
when sometimes you need to wrap
a bunch of elements in a wrapper div.
So, we have our album details as h2, a paragraph,
another paragraph, which is the artist,
and then, sometimes there's multiple descriptions,
and sometimes there's just one description
that we have here, and we wanna have it
vertically centered inside of this card,
so regardless of where we are at.
So, let's kick it off here.
First things we're gonna do and, by the way,
you should pause this and try to do it yourself
before we move along, but other than that let's get rolling.
So, I'm going to start off with the actual grid,
which is the albums, so, albums,
we're going to display grid,
and how wide should each grid template be?
Well, grid-template-columns.
We're going to repeat and we're gonna use that other one,
like we did before, we're gonna say auto-fit,
and, let's just give it a hard 100 pixels.
So, however many 100 pixels once worked.
Obviously, that's not going to work very well,
so what we really need to do here
is to change this to be a minmax.
At a minimum I want it to be 400 pixels
and at a maximum I want it to be 100% wide, which is 1fr.
And then, what this will do is that,
sort of the size of the content inside of it
we'll figure out how many can fit on a page.
So that's looking pretty good,
that's just the basis of our grid.
Let's go down to the album, and style that a little bit,
just the background, we're gonna put rgba,
on it some box-shadow, looking good,
looking good, let's go back up to our grid here
and say grid-gap, I don't know, 20px?
It's looking pretty good, our album.
You should have some padding of 20px on it.
Now, how do I actually get the image and the text
to go side by side, if the albums is the grid
and the album is the grid item,
how do I use grid on the actual album itself?
And this is very similar to flex-box in that
your grid item can also be a grid container
at the exact same time.
So even though, album is itself a grid item,
we can display grid right on it,
and then we're going to make two columns,
and if we've looked at this version here,
we're gonna make one column that is 150 pixels wide
for the image, and then, the rest, for the descriptions.
So, say grid-template-columns
and we're gonna have 150 pixels for the first one,
and then a 1fr for whatever is left after that,
and you see that the values
are butting up against each other.
We'll have a grid-gap, 20px maybe, so it's not bumping up,
maybe I'll pop that down to 10px.
Good, now I want inside of this album here,
I want everything to be vertically centered,
so, you tell me, it's align-items,
going to be center,
that over to be centered.
They are being very big.
Let's try to debug it.
Actually I don't know why they are being so big,
let's see what is then causing that.
grid-template-columns, I'll turn on,
let's get our dev tools out, we'll go to layout,
we'll turn on one of the album
and see what we're dealing with here.
Something is causing it to be big.
What could it be?
Not that, not that, not that.
oh, you know what?
Maybe it's the natural, is that what it might be?
The natural size of the image tag, 300 pixels high?
And how high are these things?
Width 340, yep, so it's 300 pixels high
plus the 20 pixels of margin.
Our 20 pixels of grid-gap that's causing it,
so, actually, that's really interesting
little bug that we ran into there,
because the natural image height was 300 pixels,
it was actually causing it to be bigger
that it actually should be.
So, how do we fix that?
Let's take a look, I'm willing to bet
if we select one of our images,
which is album__artwork,
so, give ourselves a selector here
and give that a width of 100%
so it spans the entire width of its column.
Does that fix?
There you go, that fixed it.
And that, I guess, that will kick into.
I'm very curious to see if chrome does the exact same thing.
Let's take a look.
Uh, there, that's a little bit more of,
some more info because, what was happening here,
is that the column is only 150 pixels wide,
but I had not set my images to be 100 pixels wide.
So, in the case of Firefox,
they were automatically resizing it,
in the case of Chrome, it's spilling outside of the column,
and that's what's actually computing
the actual height of the image.
So, by adding a width 100%, what it will do is
it actually forces the image to size itself
not based on its natural 300 pixel width
but based on the available space for it,
which is 150 pixels for the container,
and then that will, in turn, kick the height
to resize itself as well,
'cause the images are proportional.
So, a little good thing to know there,
and I guess, opening it up in another browser
would've showed me a little quicker.
Good, so we've got this,
they are vertically centering themselves on there.
I'm gonna go to my album and say color: white
and change up the font-weight: 100.
Beauty, looking really good.
Now, as we resize it, you should see that
we have more on the screen as we have more space,
and you can play around with the actual size,
this way, we can go down to 300 pixels and fit them.
What is really neat about using this grid-template-columns,
and fit as many in as long as they are, at least 300 pixels,
is that this layout, this grid that we did here,
currently it's bound by the resizing of the browser,
but if I had this album grid, maybe two grids side by side,
and one of them was like, 30% of the browser,
and the other one was 70% of the browser,
they would only show, maybe one in the first column,
and then two in the actual second column,
so I would have two grids side by side,
and it's almost, sort of, like element queries
are container queries there,
where they would just fit as many as they can
in the parent container, and in this case,
the parent container is as wide as it will actually go.
So, hopefully you learned a thing or two there
about nesting grids, let's move into the next one,
which is building an image gallery.